Update documents for cross-partition scan and import feature (#1301)
scalar-labs/scalardb: docs/schema-loader-import.md

# Importing existing tables to ScalarDB using ScalarDB Schema Loader

You might want to use ScalarDB (e.g., for database-spanning transactions) with your existing databases. In that case, you can import those databases under the ScalarDB control using ScalarDB Schema Loader. ScalarDB Schema Loader automatically adds ScalarDB-internal metadata columns in each existing table and metadata tables to enable various ScalarDB functionalities including transaction management across multiple databases.

## Before you begin

{% capture notice--warning %}
**Attention**

You should carefully plan to import a table to ScalarDB in production because it will add transaction metadata columns to your database tables and the ScalarDB metadata tables. There would also be several differences between your database and ScalarDB and limitations.

> {% endcapture %}

Author: After adding the holistic migration guide, I will add a reference for it around here.

<div class="notice--warning">{{ notice--warning | markdownify }}</div>

> ### What will be added to your databases

Reviewer: I think we should talk about how much importing is lightweight, like, the time for importing doesn't take proportionally to the database size and usually takes several seconds.

Author: Fixed in e3dd00d.

| bigint     | BIGINT   | [*1](#warn-data-size) |
| binary     | BLOB     | [*2](#warn-data-size) |
| bit        | BOOLEAN  |                       |
| char       | TEXT     | [*2](#warn-data-size) |
| float      | DOUBLE   |                       |
| image      | BLOB     |                       |
| int        | INT      |                       |
| nchar      | TEXT     | [*2](#warn-data-size) |
| ntext      | TEXT     |                       |
| nvarchar   | TEXT     | [*2](#warn-data-size) |
| real       | FLOAT    |                       |
| smallint   | INT      | [*2](#warn-data-size) |
| text       | TEXT     |                       |
| tinyint    | INT      | [*2](#warn-data-size) |
| varbinary  | BLOB     | [*2](#warn-data-size) |
| varchar    | TEXT     | [*2](#warn-data-size) |

Data types not listed in the above are not supported. The typical examples are shown below.

- cursor
- date
- datetime
- datetime2
- datetimeoffset
- decimal
- geography
- geometry
- hierarchyid
- money
- numeric
- rowversion
- smalldatetime
- smallmoney
- sql_variant
- time
- uniqueidentifier
- xml

</div>

</div>

{% capture notice--warning %}
**Attention**

> 1. The value range of `BIGINT` in ScalarDB is from -2^53 to 2^53, regardless of the size of `bigint` in the underlying database. Thus, if the data out of this range exists in the imported table, ScalarDB cannot read it.

Author: Good question. The answer is #3. `IllegalArgumentException` will be thrown with a message like: "Out of range column value for BigInt. value: xxx".

> 1. The value range of `BIGINT` in ScalarDB is from -2^53 to 2^53, regardless of the size of `bigint` in the underlying database. Thus, if the data out of this range exists in the imported table, ScalarDB cannot read it.

Reviewer 2: I see. I understand.
Thank you!

2. For certain data types noted above, ScalarDB may map a data type larger than that of the underlying database. In that case, You will see errors when putting a value with a size larger than the size specified in the underlying database.

> 3. The maximum size of `BLOB` in ScalarDB is about 2GB (precisely 2^31-1 bytes). In contrast, Oracle `blob` can have (4GB-1)*(number of blocks). Thus, if the data larger than 2GB exists in the imported table, ScalarDB cannot read it.

Reviewer 2: Ditto. Do we observe `null`, some value, or an error?

Author: Good question again. The 2GB limit is due to Java's byte array limits. I don't test it, but I guess the Oracle JDBC driver throws an `SQLException`. Or, we might see an OOM error if the heap size is not correctly configured. Apart from that, we might be able to handle such large objects better by using JDBC `Blob getBlob(...)` and offset-based access instead of `byte[] getBytes(...)`.

Reviewer 2: Ah, I see. I understood that it depends on Java side.
Thank you!

# Importing existing tables to ScalarDB using ScalarDB Schema Loader

You might want to use ScalarDB (e.g., for database-spanning transactions) with your existing databases. In that case, you can import those databases under the ScalarDB control using ScalarDB Schema Loader. ScalarDB Schema Loader automatically adds ScalarDB-internal metadata columns in each existing table and metadata tables to enable various ScalarDB functionalities including transaction management across multiple databases.

## Before you begin

{% capture notice--warning %}
**Attention**

> You should carefully plan to import a table to ScalarDB in production because it will add transaction metadata columns to your database tables and the ScalarDB metadata tables. There would also be several differences between your database and ScalarDB and limitations.

Author: @josh-wong Do you mean the following change?

```suggestion
You should carefully plan to import a table to ScalarDB in production because it will add transaction metadata columns to your database tables and the ScalarDB metadata tables. In this case, there would also be several differences between your database and ScalarDB, as well as some limitations.
```

> You should carefully plan to import a table to ScalarDB in production because it will add transaction metadata columns to your database tables and the ScalarDB metadata tables. There would also be several differences between your database and ScalarDB and limitations.

Reviewer 3: Oops! Yes, that is correct. Copy-paste error...😞

> You should carefully plan to import a table to ScalarDB in production because it will add transaction metadata columns to your database tables and the ScalarDB metadata tables. There would also be several differences between your database and ScalarDB and limitations.

Author: No problem! Thank you!

{% endcapture %}

<div class="notice--warning">{{ notice--warning | markdownify }}</div>

### What will be added to your databases

> - ScalarDB metadata tables: ScalarDB manages namespace names and table metadata in an namespace (schema or database in underlying databases) called 'scalardb'.
> - Transaction metadata columns: the Consensus Commit transaction manager requires metadata (for example, transaction ID, record version, and transaction status) stored along with the actual records to handle transactions properly. Thus, this tool adds the metadata columns if you use the Consensus Commit transaction manager.
> - Keep in mind that the tool only changes database metadata; thus, the processing time does not increase in proportion to the database size and usually takes only several seconds.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **ScalarDB metadata tables:** ScalarDB manages namespace names and table metadata in a namespace (schema or database in underlying databases) called 'scalardb'.
- **Transaction metadata columns:** The Consensus Commit transaction manager requires metadata (for example, transaction ID, record version, and transaction status) stored along with the actual records to handle transactions properly. Thus, this tool adds the metadata columns if you use the Consensus Commit transaction manager.

{% capture notice--info %}
**Note**

This tool only changes database metadata. Thus, the processing time does not increase in proportion to the database size and usually takes only several seconds.
{% endcapture %}

<div class="notice--info">{{ notice--info | markdownify }}</div>
```

### Requirements

> - [JDBC databases](./scalardb-supported-databases.md#jdbc-databases) except for SQLite are importable.
> - Each table must have primary key column(s) (composite primary keys can be available) .
> - Target tables must only have columns with supported data type (see also [here](#data-type-mapping-from-jdbc-databases-to-scalardb)).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [JDBC databases](./scalardb-supported-databases.md#jdbc-databases), except for SQLite, can be imported.
- Each table must have primary key columns. (Composite primary keys can be available.)
- Target tables must only have columns with supported data types. For details, see [Data-type mapping from JDBC databases to ScalarDB](#data-type-mapping-from-jdbc-databases-to-scalardb)).
```
